>>ANNOUNCER: And
now, world renowned
spirit medium, James Van Praagh.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH:
Hello everyone.
Hi.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And thank you also for tuning in
to another wonderful adventure
of "Spirit Talk," where I take
you one step closer to Heaven.
So today's topic, which
I chose with the spirit,
with the help of
the spirit world,
was to really help
you or assist you
in understanding where
you go when you die.
Isn't that something
you wanted to know?
you've thought of before?
Are you dead?
Wait, I think they're
sending the live ones.
All right.
How many people here,
in their lifetime,
wondered where you go after
you pass out of the body?
Everybody, right?
So everybody has that question.
It's the eternal question
that everybody asks.
And you know, it's
very interesting.
Because we've all been--
obviously, we were born.
And we know a little
bit about life
before we were born,
the process of birth,
and what happens
when we're a baby.
We get into this world that way.
We know that what happens then.
But we rarely know,
many times, what
happens after our spirit
leaves the physical body.
Many people know that
the work that I do
is I'm in communication
with the spirit realms
and the other dimensions
of reality, which there
are many, many
realities around us.
Many people think Heaven
or the spirit world
is there, above, the clouds.
Maybe it's depicted
from religions,
or various traditions,
belief systems.
But I can tell you
this, rest assured
that the spirit world,
Heaven, is not there,
but it's all around us, and
within us, and all around us.
Isn't that interesting?
You're sitting there going.
True.
I do the same thing.
I had the same face
when I found out.
I was like--
But it's really, really true.
And it's so
interesting, because I
find when I communicate with
the spirit world, of course,
they're the same as they were
on the Earth in many respects.
When you first pass over
into the spiritual realms,
we have the exact same mindset
that we did here on the Earth.
Yes.
So if there was somebody
who doesn't believe
in this type of work,
spirit communication,
even though they left the body
and they're more awake and more
alive than they ever
were on the Earth,
and they come to something like
this, spirit communication,
a demonstration with a medium,
they might stand in the corner
and say, I'm not
going to do that.
I'm not going to
try to communicate.
I didn't believe in
that when I was alive.
Why would I do it now?
It's happened.
I've had that experience.
It's important that we realize
that when we leave the body,
it's not something that
happens like, here it is.
We really live spiritually
now at the moment.
Right now as you're
sitting here,
you are really alive
in many levels.
We're just aware of the
physical three-dimensional self.
But if you try to
think of it as--
and I try to think of it like
this all the time-- wait,
let me just think about this.
It's really, really hard.
Because when you talk
about the spiritual world
and the spiritual aesthetics,
it's very, very difficult
sometimes.
Because in our lives, we've
been really conditioned,
if you will, to place
human terms, human laws,
human characteristics
on another dimension.
So how can you place
certain human traits
or human characteristics,
even the colors-- colors
of red, blue, green-- into
a sixth dimension, the seven
dimension, eighth dimension.
It doesn't mean the same thing
necessarily in that dimension.
See what I'm saying?
So really, I think of us in
a three dimensional world
here, in this physical
body, is really
the thumb or the toe of who
we really are as a spirit.
This is just a small
part of who you are, yes?
Or even like a tree.
I don't know why I said
the thumb-- a tree.
And this is a-- one
part of the tree.
You go way, way beyond that.
You are much, much more than
just this physical body.
It's a very small
part of who you are.
It is the densest
It's the densest
part of your being.
You are a spirit first
and foremost, or a soul.
If you want to call
it a soul, that's
fine-- first and foremost,
having a human experience.
You as a soul, being,
move or vibrate,
or move at a much
faster rate of speed.
The energy moves up very
quickly and very fast.
In this three-dimensional
level, everything
is kind of slowed
down quite a bit.
This physical body, everything
is sort of slow and dense,
and it's like, oh.
When you leave this body
at the time of death, which
is graduation-- I say graduation
because this is-- it's true.
This is our
schoolroom down here.
The Earth is our
soul's schoolroom-- one
of many, many schoolrooms.
There are many--
as you look around
my set, look at all
the schoolrooms.
Look at all these
celestial bodies
that are kind of portrayed here.
I think it's fabulous, because
there are many star systems.
There are many solar systems.
The Earth, if you look
at the Earth, in a way,
it's like a grain of
sand on the beach.
So just imagine the-- really
the immensity, the enormity,
when you think of the Earth
as just one little piece
of granule sand compared
to everything there is.
So there's so much
more out there
than we even are aware of in
this three-dimensional world.
When it's time to
graduate and your soul has
gone through all
the lessons it's
going to do down here on
this Earth level, which
is one of many
schools, and this Earth
affords us physical
things, like-- let's see
hurt, emotional hurt,
upset, learning about love,
learning about fear,
learning about compassion,
learning about patience,
learning about forgiveness.
We can do that really well
in the school called Earth.
When our soul has really
finish graduating,
learned the lessons it's meant
to learn, the soul goes home.
Now, that soul can
leave, and graduate,
and learn all of its
lessons in a year,
if that's what its blueprint is.
Or it can stay around
for 10 years Earth
time, 20 years, 85 years.
It doesn't matter
physically how long.
For here it does, the human.
But for the soul,
it doesn't matter,
because the soul is really
based upon experiences.
It gets its experience, all
the lessons it's learning,
the experiences it goes through
helps the soul to expand.
And that's why we're here.
We're here to expand our
awareness, our consciousness,
who we are.
Another very, very hard lesson
here on this human level
is grief and loss.
And a lot of you are here
because of that, I think,
and going through
that physical loss.
And we think it's so real.
It's so real.
But it's not, because
there is no loss.
There is no loss.
There is no death.
You cannot kill energy.
Energy changes form.
So when we again
apply human conditions
and human characteristics
on a soul, a spirit,
it's hard because its energy.
And the one consistency we have
with that spirit side of life--
the spirit body-- this is the
soul-- and the physical part
of you, is love.
And love never dies.
Love just change--
love is always with us.
And the spirit people are
around us more than ever.
So when you graduate, when
the soul leaves the body,
you go to the spirit world.
And the spirit world is made
up of many, many levels--
many, many levels.
It's a world within
world within world.
So think of it
that way-- a world
within a world within a world.
And you can experience
those worlds here and now,
with your mind.
The mind is part of the soul.
The brain dies a physical death,
but the mind continues on.
So you can sit here right
now, and in a few moments,
we're going to do
a mind journey.
I'm going to bring you
on a journey to travel.
You can go anywhere with the
mind, any levels you'd like to.
For most people,
once you pass out
of the body, which is painless.
There is no pain when you leave.
It's important that you realize
that when it is your time
to graduate, no one
graduates alone.
No one leaves the body alone.
There are many, many beings
around you-- your spirit family
and friends come to greet you.
And for them, it's a big party
when you leave this Earth.
They can't wait for
you to get home again.
They're so happy.
It's so funny because
when we're born,
we cry and everybody's happy.
And when we leave, they
cry and we're happy.
Interesting.
Many times you'll find when you
first pass through the spirit
world depending upon the
conditions of your graduation--
whether it's a sickness, whether
it's a fast passing, whatever
it might be-- it seems
that they will bring you
to what's called
the astral world.
The astral world is a replica
of the physical world,
as much as we know in that
there are buildings over there.
There are beautiful
houses over there.
There are beautiful parks
and lawns and greens
and flowers and trees and lakes
and boats on lakes-- everything
we have here physically, but
then more so-- more color.
It seems more alive than here.
It's very interesting
that spirit would often
say to me, when I first came
here to the astral level, which
is right above the
Earth level, it
seemed so much like the Earth.
But it seems as if I
took my sunglasses off,
and now I can see clearly.
And I feel at home.
So in that astral world, it's
a reproduction, if you will,
of everything here.
And it seems that they
will bring you there.
We go there first to adapt--
to adapt in some ways
to our new conditions
of life in that we're
no longer a physical body.
And the mind has to realize.
And there's a transition
period of the mind realizing,
oh, I'm no longer in that body.
Do you remember
the movie "Ghost?"
Remember when Patrick
Swayze passed over
and he's trying to get back
to his girlfriend there?
And he kept on walking
through things.
And he couldn't be
seen physically,
because he's not
on that vibration.
He's not on that
level of energy.
He's on a higher
level of energy,
and the physical people, the
humans, couldn't see him.
But he was right there.
And that's because the
spirits on the astral world
have the lighter
side of themselves.
The astral world, there
they've an adaption
to the new vibration
of where they are.
Many times, it's so
interesting, they
will tend to replicate
with their mind,
with their thoughts.
They will create this
world, this situation,
this scenario for you
when you first pass over
to make you feel very,
very comfortable.
And all your friends
and family members,
people you've seen
for-- haven't seen
for a long, long time in
this life or in other lives--
there might be some
souls that you've
shared past lives with
who you don't know
from this incarnation,
but past incarnations.
Hello.
Interesting, yeah.
Don't limit the soul.
So, many times I find, depending
again on the transition,
that the spirit people
will, with their mind,
they can create, they can
materialize and replicate
a certain scenario,
a certain situation.
So many times, they will
replicate the mother's house.
The mother's house.
So the soul will feel
very comfortable.
And there will be
the exact furniture.
There's the teacups.
There's the paintings.
Say wow, this looks like
my mother's old house.
And why do they do that?
It seems that they do
that to help the soul
to adapt, to realize
that it's OK.
You passed out of the body,
but it's all very, very real.
Many times it
seems like a dream.
And the spirit will often
say, am I in a dream?
Where am I?
You're my sister.
And I haven't seen you for
years because you're dead.
But if I can see you and you're
dead, then I must be dead,
you know?
And they go through
this whole thing,
and it feels like a dream.
But it's very, very real.
So they might have to
say to that spirit,
well, you know what?
You have passed away.
And I know you don't see you
have or feel that you have,
but let's go to your funeral.
And they will bring them to
their funeral and memorial
service if they have one.
They'll bring them around the
family who's crying and upset.
And the spirit will say,
why are they crying?
I'm alive.
I'm not dead.
Can you tell them I'm not dead.
I'm alive.
I'm very alive.
Yet they can't,
because the human
is limited in their perception--
in their perception.
So the human being, if you look
at it in a scale of perception,
they have a very limited
scale of perception,
like a radio band,
the width like that,
where the spirit
is much, much more.
Yeah.
So if you develop your intuition
and your mediumistic abilities
to a point that--
everybody can to a point--
you'll be able to be more aware
of that bandwidth, the wider
bandwidth.
So after the astral world when
the spirit adapts and they
realize what's going on, that
they are in this new spirit
form, many times they'll
go to next level, which
is the mental level,
which is the mental realm.
Now remember, there
are many, many levels
and many, many layers.
In the Bible it says, my Father
has a house with many mansions.
What I believe is they're all
different levels which exist.
And we go to these
levels based upon how
we lived our life--
the thoughts,
the energy we gave out,
the words we shared
with other people, how we
influenced other people's
lives.
That's where we're
going to end up.
That's going to be our
Heaven or our hell.
If you lived the good life, you
tried to the best you could,
you tried to demonstrate
compassion wherever possible,
you don't take things
so personally in human,
and you did the best you could,
you'll be in a fine place.
But if you went out of your way
trying to get down on people,
hurt people, hate people,
destroy people, manipulate
people, you're going to end
up in a space just like that.
So it really is what you do with
your thoughts and your energy
you put forth.
So the next world besides the
astral world that we go to
is the mental world.
And in this mental world,
we all have a life review.
And we look back and we
relive, in our heads,
in a mental body, mental
selves all of the things
we said to each other-- the
positive, the negatives,
everything.
We relive it and we feel it
10 times, 20 times, 30 times
stronger than we did
originally here in the Earth.
Imagine that.
You know, sometimes when
you're not in a great mood
and you get really upset,
you yell at somebody.
And did you ever
realize that you
might change the
energy of that person
and that gets them very upset.
And then they go somewhere
else and they yell at somebody,
because they're
not in a good mood.
And then that person
yells at somebody
because they're
not in a good mood.
You know about that, right?
Can you imagine when you
go to the mental world
and you have to relive what
you said to that person
and how they felt, and
how the next person felt,
and the next person felt,
so forth, and so on.
And that you're
the source of it.
That you created that feeling.
You create that mental anxiety.
Can you imagine that?
The spirit world is timeless.
There is no time, so
you're outside of time.
So the only thing
that you have that
exists there is your
mental thoughts.
So you know on this Earth
sometimes when it's difficult,
we say things we're
not very happy about,
and we feel very bad about that.
Imagine when you're
in the spirit world
where there's no time.
And you've got to relive those
thoughts over and over again--
how you treated people mentally.
Just something to think about.
The next level is really one
I call the celestial level
or the heavenly level, where
you really come back closer
to the light being
that you are, and it's
more of, I guess we could
say, the human levels here,
the more spiritual,
the more enlightened,
the more levels of
compassion and love
and oneness--
connection of oneness.
That your light travels
to every single--
that you're part of
every single person.
That your light is a part
of every single person.
That's the celestial
levels, where
you realize you can influence
and help to bring up everybody.
Very, very important
that you know that.
That's it.
So when I talk to spirit
and communicate with spirit,
remember that they
might be on many,
many different levels that are
with what we as humans cannot
understand.
And what they do
to communicate is
they have to lower themselves
down to the human level.
Can you imagine
how hard that is?
Can you imagine how heavy that
might be for them, when they're
in a light body,
when they're light,
and they're really effervescent
and buoyant, like just being
there.
And they have to come back
down to the human level
and try to communicate.
The analogy I like
really a lot is
if you tried to sit down at
the bottom of a pool of eight
feet of water, it's very
difficult, isn't it?
You can't stay there because
that's not your natural place.
You need to go up and
get air from the surface.
It's the same thing
with the spirit world.
This is not their
natural space anymore.
They're not of this vibration.
It's too slow.
It's too heavy.
And like, oh, I have
to go back down there.
It's just very hard
for them sometimes.
But what brings them here?
Your love, your
love, and lets you
know that you don't need
to have the mind chatter,
the cluttering of the
mind, the dirt of the mind,
with thinking they're dead, with
thinking that they're alone,
with thinking I should have done
this, shoulda, woulda, coulda.
Let it go.
Because they're not
like that anymore.
They forgive you.
They see you for who you are
as a soul being, not the human.
Why is that?
Why can't they
just go above that
and realize that they are
spirit, realize that they
are light, they
are light beings.
They're not dark beings.
They're light beings.
Stop living in fear.
Live in love.
It's your natural substance.
It's what you're made of--
the particles of love.
That's what gives you--
give to each other.
That's what sustains life--
the love, not the fear.
So I just want to
share that with you.
OK?
Great.
Any questions?
>>AUDIENCE: I have one.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
>>AUDIENCE: Dr. Michael Newton,
he-- "Destiny of the Souls,"
"Journey of the Souls," he--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Love him.
>>AUDIENCE: He talked
about the soul actually
being in the form of a sphere
and that it changed colors
as it progressed, the more that
your-- as your soul progresses.
You agree?
I just want to hear your input.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
I love Michael Newton.
I love him.
And I use a lot of his work
and his research in my work.
And I find that's exactly.
It's so hard to say to
you, it's just this way.
Because there's
variations of it.
So I can tell you
my interpretation
is it's very similar
to his in that I
see the soul as a
diamond, as a light.
And the more aware we are,
the brighter the colors get.
The colors change.
The expansion happens.
And that's with the more
knowledge, and the more
awareness, and the
more love that we
use, we expand more,
and more, and more.
That's exactly what
he's speaking about,
which is exactly right.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now,
you're welcome.
I'd like to share with you
just a little bit of what's
called a mind journey.
And I just want to
see where you go.
How's that?
Is that good?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, you're alive.
So this is going to be a
very-- a quick little mind
journey as you become
aware that we share
the space with the spirit world
and they're all around us.
I just want you step
into that world with me.
So just close your eyes and
just listen to my voice,
and just place your
awareness on your body.
Bring all of your
awareness to your feet.
And realize that you are
part of Mother Earth.
And go down all the way
to the bottom of your feet
who you are, everything
that you know of yourself,
go all the way
down to your feet,
all the way down through
to Mother Earth--
nurturing, loving, beautiful
Earth energy, Gaia energy.
And I just want you to
feel her give you security,
nurturing you.
Let her nurture your soul,
nurture that beautiful energy
from Gaia.
Bring it up.
Let her nurture every
cell, every organ,
every muscle in the body.
Great.
We're going to go deeper
with that with the breath.
So as you bring in a breath,
inhalate, inhalation,
you're going to bring it in
all the way down to your feet
to Mother Earth.
And just be there.
And inhale.
And hold it two, three,
four, and exhale.
Good.
Let it go down to Mother
Earth, connected with her.
Lovely.
And now, I would like
for you to connect
with the celestial
world, the spirit world.
And just imagine, if you will,
around is this beautiful light.
And that illuminacity
around you is
reflected in the realms of
the spirit all around you.
And I just want you for a
moment to just acknowledge
in your heart and in your mind
that you are first and foremost
a spirit being-- a being of
light, a beautiful light.
And I just want you to
feel more light come
into the awareness of the
physical body with the breath.
So imagine a beautiful light
coming to the top of the head
and illuminating you
to the truth of who
you are-- a beautiful
spirit light.
And inhale.
Bring in that light and hold it
two, three, four, and exhale.
Good.
And as you do that, I
just want you to send out
a thought to the
spirit world-- send out
a thought to your loved
ones, who's ever there,
that I am a vessel of spirit.
I am a spirit and
you are a spirit.
My mind is open.
My mind is clear.
Dear spirit friends
and family, I
welcome you into my
atmosphere around me.
I welcome you yet again
to this physical dimension
so that you may share your
thoughts, your feelings--
that you may, please, have the
opportunity to bring a healing,
to bring a oneness, to bring
an awareness to myself,
that I may be
expanded in my mind,
expanded in my heart, being
touched by your light,
as your light touches my light.
And I just send out
that thought and just
feel what that's like to
have that space in your mind.
Just feel what that's like.
Great.
Take a deep breath with that.
And exhale.
And just feel the love
of the spirit people
as they come close
behind you, next to you.
And feel them in their
beautiful, celestial spirit
bodies.
How pure, clean,
clear they feel.
And most importantly,
feel the love for you.
And take another deep breath.
And exhale.
And slowly open up your
eyes and be as one.
Oh good, you look much nicer
now, much brighter now.
Did you have a good
time with that?
Did you enjoy that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did you get
something you didn't expect?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did you feel
something you didn't expect?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, good.
Sometimes, that's just a way
of getting into your true self
there.
So I gotta tell you that.
As I come close here, and I let
that spirit world close to me
and touch my mind, I have
a feeling of a girl here
who comes in.
It's a lady who comes in.
And I feel like this girl
would have passed over
between 18 to 24 years of age.
I feel she was not
expecting to pass over,
so I feel a sense of
surprise, or a shock, or not
aware of what's going to happen.
So I know if I bring
this girl in closer to me
and I like her energy,
she's coming closer now.
Now, I know that I want
to talk about this girl.
And I know that I got
to honor her to come in.
She's in her 20s now.
Great.
She's coming closer.
I feel like I was
unexpected passing.
I feel it was a sudden passing.
I know that the
person in the audience
thought about her today.
I'm very aware of that.
I know my mother is
still here on the Earth.
And I know I go and
visit her a lot.
And I know my mother's
having a really hard time.
I'm just aware of that.
And I hope this makes
sense to somebody here.
It does.
Are you the mother?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
May come to you, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Debra.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Debra, would
you mind standing, please?
OK, Debra.
Are you OK, honey?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So did you understand?
I'm just going to
repeat the information
that she gives me here.
So you'd understand in her
age, roughly around 18 to 20s
and that.
Is that right--
early 20s, not late?
>>AUDIENCE: She'd be 23
on her next birthday.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
Yes.
Great.
It's interesting
because every spirit
communicates differently.
And I really got to work with
them to come down to this level
and stabilize.
And your enthusiasm does
help, but they really
got to work with my
energy and my vibration.
So I've got to go with that.
And go on, go on, go on.
I know you're having hard
time, she's talking about.
So I know that.
Go on, go on, go on.
Slow down.
You understand about passing
away outside the house?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Or outside.
Would I be in a street
when I pass away
or where would I-- Do
you understand that?
Was it a car?
>>AUDIENCE: She
was hit by a train.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hit by a train.
OK.
Don't tell me.
Just say yes or no.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm sorry.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know
that I'm outside.
So there was a train.
She was hit by a train,
but know it was sudden.
I know it was sudden.
I know it wasn't
meant to happen.
I know it was an
accident of some kind.
And I know that.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that I don't
want you to be upset about that.
Yes.
I know that I don't
want you suing anybody.
I know there was
a legal problem.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
know that you either
wanted to go after that, legally
go after the train company
or whatever it was, or
someone at the station.
And you tried doing that, or
went after that, something
like this.
Does that make sense, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, we did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Settled?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And it's
still going on a little bit,
but you settled.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The impact,
there's no impact.
There's nothing.
She didn't feel anything.
She wants everybody here
to know in the audience
that when that happens,
and people at home here,
that when that happens--
and I tell this
all the time to people, because
I've done this so many years--
that there's, if
you will, a shutoff
valve or a loss of consciousness
before something like that
happens.
The spirit world knows
it's going to happen.
They're very aware of it.
I know that there's some
problem that the person wasn't
in control of that train or
something happened that-- I
don't know if there
was alcohol, drugs,
something was
going on with that.
But I don't know
what that means.
I know that you want her to
come through in your own way.
I know you're trying to get
her through in your own way
and only you can understand,
but you can't do that.
Because if I would say to
you, give me the thought
that I'm thinking right
now, you couldn't tell me.
Same thing with spirit.
Do you understand that?
You still think of her as
a little girl, she said.
She said my mother still
back to memories of me
as a little girl,
as a young girl.
My mother still goes back
to me on my 11th birthday.
So there was an
11th birthday party,
at the time she
was 11 years old,
there was a party,
a birthday party.
I know there's a birthday
party, because she tells me,
there's a video.
There's some films, a video
of her when she's young.
Do understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that
you've been looking at those,
or you have those
and you can't stop
looking at them every
once in a while.
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know
she gives me the sense
that she comes into my mind
that there is projecting
a thought of a
party, a situation.
And she's happy.
And she's smiling.
And I know that was a
birthday party of some kind.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
I know there's a separation
now between dad and you,
or there's a split.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
And I feel from this girl that
I'm very sorry that happened.
I love my dad.
She loves her dad.
When were you married?
>>AUDIENCE: I was 32.
>>VAN PRAAGH: 32 years old.
And how long have
you been separated?
>>AUDIENCE: We have been
divorced several years.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Several years.
OK.
Go on.
I want to say thank you for
your friend for coming with you.
Do you know her?
You're aware of her.
You're related to
her, aren't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Are you sisters?
Are you?
OK.
Because she just said thank you.
So she goes from a sister here.
Now I know about the back--
I got it back-- the jewelery.
So I know about either earrings.
I know a necklace or something.
I don't know if
you're wearing it
or you thought about
doing that today.
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: These
earrings are from her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
OK.
I'm very, very aware that you've
kept the newspaper articles.
You've kept the article
about her death,
and you still have it out.
And I'm just going to
say to you something
that I say to a lot of parents.
Losing a child is
one of the hardest
lessons on this human Earth.
It's one of the hardest
ones, but it's also one
that the souls pick out
before they come back
in the incarnation, because
it is one of the, I would say,
post graduate work.
It's a real hard lesson, but
it takes a really evolved soul
or souls to go through that.
Do you understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I just
want you to honor her.
And then, she's
very independent.
She's a smart acre,
a smart aleck.
She speaks the truth.
She doesn't care what she says.
She'll say things like oops,
I shouldn't have said that.
And I know that when she's
talking about going somewhere
when she passes away.
So when that happens, there's
a big fork in the road for her.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So she was either
going to go start a new job
or going to start something
brand new in her life.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know I want
to go out of state sometimes as
well.
I'm going to a
different state, or she
had connections to
another state, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, very much.
Thank you.
I know that I also wanted
to go to Europe, by the way.
She's talking about that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Very, very accurate.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very,
very accurate.
And we try to be.
We try the best we can.
We try.
Not always there,
but I try to be.
But can I just let you
know that she's lived out
that European connection over
and over again in her head.
I know you have as well.
I know about the
photographs-- I'm
very aware of the
photographs looking at Europe
and over looking at that, living
that over again in your mind.
I know you have memories
of that that we share.
I know that you smell
flowers around the house,
because she does that
with you all the time.
I know that you grow a little
patch of garden for her
or something round with her.
I know I smell roses.
I smell roses, and she's
talking about that.
So if I go to your place
where you're living now,
I know it's a condominium is it,
or an apartment of some kind?
>>AUDIENCE: It's an apartment.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I see it.
And I'm very, very aware
then if I go into two rooms,
one especially where
you sit with a computer,
I'm very aware of that room.
You understand that
room, don't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Like your office.
If I go to that room, where
you have things hanging up,
I know that there are things
about her there on that wall.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that, don't you?
Now if I look at
that wall, I see
there's a flower, what might
be even a card with the flowers
on a card, the
front of the card.
Can you place that for me?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
what she's talking about,
with the flowers.
OK.
So I know her
photographs are there.
I know there's a card
there with a flower.
And I know there's
something very--
I don't know why I want
to say angels there, too.
The angels are right
there, do you understand?
It's OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Her name is Angel.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Her name is Angel.
All right.
You have her name there.
You have her name there on that
wall, right-- her name, Angel,
there.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right?
Because she gave me--
In my mind, the per-- I
really received angel.
So I didn't know
how to receive that.
So you know what
it means, great.
And I want you to know that
you cannot identify with
your daughter dying in
that, that's who you are.
You're more than that.
And I want you to be more aware
of yourself, your own growth,
and your own grounding, because
you get in your head too much.
Yeah.
You get in your head too much.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you
take care of her, right?
Yeah.
Because I like that.
I like that.
She's around you a lot.
And she's, when you
talk about the stars,
she's right there with you.
I understand that.
So I'm going to leave
you with that, OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you so much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, and thank you
for coming with her today.
Bless you.
You're welcome.
I have a lady here.
I feel like very much
a mother feeling.
I'm going over here.
Your mother passed over, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you know about
that your mother liking to wear
very nice dresses sometimes,
being in style or fashion when
she's younger.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Betsy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Betsy, nice to--
will you stand up, please.
May I work with you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
So I have your mother here.
I definitely feel
it's your mother.
I feel like a big family
by the way, as well.
And I feel like we
have more of a family
on the other side of
life than we do here.
But I gotta tell
you something, I
feel there's been-- she's
going on about people were not
honest here on this Earth level.
There was some
dishonesty in the family.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: People were not
truthful about certain things
in the family, the
family dynamic, things
that happened in the family.
I don't know if
it was the history
of the family in the
past 20 or 30 years,
but there's some people that
are not telling the truth.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
Great.
She's going about being
ill or being sick.
And toward the end, I'm very,
very sick with this lady.
I'm not myself, because
your mother's vivacious.
She's outgoing.
She's exuberant.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's
a really fun lady.
I'd go on a roller
coaster with this lady.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I have to
describe her that way.
I'd go on a roller
coaster with this lady.
She loves to laugh.
She loves to have fun.
And she likes to
have a good time.
She loves Halloween.
Don't ask me why.
She says, I love Halloween.
And I know that she's
telling me in my mind
here that you were either
thinking very recently
of Halloween,
either the other day
or if you're going
to do something.
Is there a costume
store I'm going by?
Something about Halloween--
does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, yes.
Thank you very much.
Because she was right with
you when you decided that.
Now, I wouldn't dress up
as a witch if I were you.
I wouldn't necessarily
dress up as a witch,
but I know there must have been
a thought about doing something
like that or some
fun thing like that.
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
I know she's all about
beauty, and fun, and make up,
and big earrings,
this sort of thing.
And I want to tell
you that she's
more-- she's beautiful again.
And that's important, that
she's beautiful again.
Do you understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that
her skin is very soft.
I know that she has
very, very soft skin.
And know that I'm holding her.
I know that I'm hugging her.
I know that you were
holding her near the bed
and you were hugging her.
I know that.
Did you help with the pillows
behind her back or something?
>>AUDIENCE: Always.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Always,
because I know
that she's showing me here.
And she said that you made
it very personal for her.
You made it very,
very personal for her.
You changed things around.
I know that there are
a couple things they
said they might be able
to do and help her,
but it didn't come through.
She said, they said they could
help her out a certain way,
or something wasn't
going to happen
where we're going to give her
three more months to live.
But it didn't work out.
Do you understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Tell me.
>>AUDIENCE: She had Alzheimer's
and she was displaced right
before she passed away.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Let me
get more from her here.
Can I just tell you
that even though you
think she's Alzheimer's,
mental, I got to tell you,
she's a voracious
person right now.
She has memory.
I have to tell you, she
loves to tell stories,
loves tell stories.
She always liked
to tell stories.
Got to tell you about that.
I know that there's
a grandfather there
of yours over there with her.
And I'm very aware of
him parting the hair,
parting the hair in the center.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Parting
his hair in the center.
I know that there are a
lot of people over there
with her waiting for her.
I know when I'm younger,
I'm either in a choir
or I like to sing.
Or there's a church thing
that's very important to me
when I'm younger.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that I can relate to that.
I can reference that when I'm
a young girl in my family.
I know that I do
things differently
than most of my family members.
I'm unique and
I'm my own person.
I know that I leave
the house and I'm
much younger than I should have.
So I left the
environment of my family
when I was either
19, 20 years of age.
And she was her own person.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that
it must have gone then,
she's going on, too,
about being into a city,
or going from either
rural to a city.
And that was her thing.
Do you get that?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that I want to do something.
I have to do secretarial
stuff for a little bit.
And I hated it.
Right?
And she hated it.
>>AUDIENCE: She
always used to want
to tell the story about how
she went to business school.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Business school?
>>AUDIENCE: And she was, yes.
And that was
secretary back then.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Secretarial school.
And she had to learn typing.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Shorthand, and
she says Gregg shorthand.
That was interesting,
the name Gregg shorthand.
And that's what she's saying,
I had to learn Gregg shorthand.
And she even had a shorthand
pad with the symbols on it,
she said.
Oh I hated that, she said.
And she's also talking
to me now, she said,
I used to have an
RCA television.
Now isn't this interesting?
It's an old-fashioned
television,
I'd say, with its
brown legs on it.
It's like a console
television that says RCA.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And has
the gold around the-
>>AUDIENCE: Exactly.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she's showing
me that very, very clearly
and very, very proud of that.
>>AUDIENCE: She's very proud.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very
proud of that television
or having to get that.
I know around 1952, there
would've been a first time
that she would have experienced
maybe having things of her own,
or doing things, or
having her own stuff.
And I want to tell you
something that you, young lady,
came in unexpectedly
in some respects.
>>AUDIENCE: Really?
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: I was, yes.
I know I was.
They never admitted it, but--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: I mean, back
when I was born, she was 39.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, but it's
not what you're thinking.
So when she says unexpectedly,
that might mean the pregnancy,
maybe not expect the
pregnancy, but it's almost
like you brought that
"oomph" into her life.
So she didn't expect
that lease on life.
And you were able to bring
that lease in life with her.
I gotta tell you that.
Because she's telling
me around the time
you were born, that
either a death happens
around the family, right
around the time you were born.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Um hum.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because it
seems like one soul goes out,
and one soul comes in.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
And she's telling me, you
really lit up my life.
You brought power and
energy back to my life.
And she's thanking you for that.
I know there's a man
that passes over there
with either an aneurysm to the
head or something in the head,
very quickly passes.
So I know it'd be
a family member.
And I know it would
be in her family line.
So I'm not sure,
a brother of hers.
But it would be someone
who passed quickly
with an aneurysm.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, her brother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
Because I get that
she's with him.
And she said, there's
some people who leave
and she's going back to what
I was talking about earlier.
Some people leave quickly.
Some people have a little harder
time leaving the human shell,
because they're so much more
aware of this human shell.
And she said, I was
very-- ah, she's funny.
She has a funny sense of humor.
She said, I used to like to
read the Reader's Digest.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, she did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I used to like
to read the Reader's Digest,
she says.
I got to tell you that.
And she's very proud of that.
And March is very
significant here, too.
So I don't know if March
would be a birthday,
but she's giving me March.
>>AUDIENCE: Me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your birthday.
Great.
Because she's talking about
March, and then March with you.
And you're not alone anymore.
And tell everybody
no one's alone,
which I often tell everybody.
And think what?
I got you.
She said tell everyone to
think the best of themselves,
not the worst of themselves.
And she said, you
practice that, people.
She's a real teacher.
I mean, she really is a teacher.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
really, really is.
I got to tell you that.
So I'm going to
leave with her love.
And I'm going to thank
you for helping her
in the two different
places that she
lived at the end of her life--
there was either a hospital,
then I'm bringing
to a nursing home.
And I want to thank you
for making that all happen.
Do you understand that?
I know you did the
paperwork for that.
You made sure the nurse
or the docs were right.
I got to thank you
for taking care of me.
You were my advocate.
And she wants to
thank you for being
the advocate for her, okay?
God bless you.
I'll leave you with that.
So I know that I want to go
with a man that passes over.
And I'm over here
with this lady.
You lost your husband, yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you
mind standing please?
And your name is?
>>AUDIENCE: Kim.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Kim.
I'm aware of the man
here, but I'm also
but I'm aware also of
another gentleman here.
And it would be a father figure.
So I'm not sure it's your father
passed over or his father.
But I know it was a
father or father-in-law.
>>AUDIENCE: Both
of our fathers did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know one of
them had cancerous condition.
One of them had problems with
the blood or a cancer one place
and it goes to another place.
>>AUDIENCE: My husband
and his father.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah.
OK.
So your husband had the cancer,
but it started in one place
and goes to the other place.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know I
want to come here with you.
So I don't know why
you're here, did you just
meet each other now?
>>AUDIENCE: That's my mom.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mom.
OK.
So can you-- Would you
mind standing, too,
so I have your husband here.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So that would be her
father, wouldn't it?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I think
you were married
to him at one
point, weren't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Good.
Would you mind if he comes
through then, darling?
Is that OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Of course.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And your mom's also
passed over, hasn't she?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I
have her right behind you,
standing right here.
And she said, listen.
She said to you, listen.
>>AUDIENCE: That would be her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
she said that you
had an old trunk of hers, too.
There must have
been an old trunk
that you kept blankets in.
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You do, don't you.
Yes, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
said you have my trunk
and you keep the
blankets in there.
And you keep all
these things in there.
And she goes, I still
look, it's like a cedar
chest of some kind.
>>AUDIENCE: It is a cedar chest.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
And I know that
she tells me this.
She shows that me.
And I'm very aware of that.
She still likes those
blankets that are in there.
She made some of them.
She loves that.
Do you understand?
And you please
honor those things.
I worked really hard
to make that happen,
she's going on about.
I got that, right?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So we're going
to go back and forth here.
Let's see what we get.
Yeah.
Because I'd like-- I got to
bring her first, this lady,
because she's really strong.
And I want to talk about a
carpet or a rug at your place
where you live now.
OK?
So, where you live,
and I'm not sure
if it's the living
room area, there's
a oval carpet or a
rug of some kind.
>>AUDIENCE: There is a rug.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
She's going on and
she's making me--
she's very finicky, very picky.
She likes things in their place.
She likes the
furniture in its place.
And she doesn't like it
when it's not in its place.
I will tell you as you
sit there on the couch,
there could be a
chair over this way,
as I'm sitting on the couch.
>>AUDIENCE: I have her chair.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's
telling me this.
But I'm also, she's
bringing my mind to the rug.
So I know there's a stain or
there's a part of that rug--
>>AUDIENCE: There is.
I'm sorry.
There is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
Thank you, good.
Because she's just bringing
my mind to that space.
And when she goes and
sits down there with you,
I don't know why
she's keeping on going
to that stain on the carpet.
I need to replace that.
And she said you
need to replace that.
And she said-- she's rough.
She kept a nice home.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, she did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're not a real
home keeper like she is, see.
>>AUDIENCE: No, not at all.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she's-- oh,
she used to dust everything
every Saturday.
She used to dust things.
She's used to have
her nice silver.
She likes her lamps.
Her lamps are very important.
>>AUDIENCE: Everything perfect.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know you must
have some of her lamps now.
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Don't you?
And she's telling me that.
She goes, you please respect
my things, would you?
I know--
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, she's here!
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's here.
Yeah.
She's here.
She's definitely here.
I know I have a sister on
the other side as well.
So she's there with a sister.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
got to tell that.
And I'm very happy over here.
I feel that her sister
lightened her up a little bit.
She was a little too serious
sometimes down here sometimes.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that
dad has also passed over.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So your
father passed over.
And I got your dad as well.
So husband's coming in, too.
Got to say I love you.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry-- her
dad, your husband.
And I'm going to tell
you one thing about him.
And I want to thank you
for bringing her today.
And I want to
thank you for that.
And your husband passed over,
you said as well, right,
over this side of you.
And you-- are you
wearing his wedding band?
>>AUDIENCE: Mine.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you
still have his, though?
>>AUDIENCE: He didn't have one.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He
didn't have one?
>>AUDIENCE: We just
had fake plastic ones.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you have that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, of course.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Well, I don't know.
So he's telling
me you have that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know you
are looking at-- what's it,
a photograph?
You must have been
looking at a photograph.
That is very recently.
>>AUDIENCE: I look
at photos daily.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Of him.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you know
anyone in your family who
used to wear a uniform for work?
>>AUDIENCE: My father
was in the military.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
father wore a uniform.
OK.
I know you must have a
photo of a uniform, with him
in a uniform.
And he's very dapper and
very handsome man, you see.
>>AUDIENCE: Very.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
at the beginning,
he was right here as
well with the mother.
And I got to tell you, he
put up with a lot with her.
I love her.
She's sweet, but man.
He deserves his place in Heaven.
And I know that your father--
that I want a relationship
here with you.
And I'm coming in here,
now we're going back.
We're jumping back and forth.
I'm sorry here.
But I want to-- oh, God.
Slow down.
Your dad wants to say he has
a relationship with you now.
Can I just say that I'm sorry
or I felt isolated from you
in life.
Does that makes sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
it was very hard for you.
And I know I was very
much into myself.
And I know I was
little narcissistic.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, really.
Were you a dancer younger?
Did you used to love to dance
when you were a young girl?
>>AUDIENCE: Me?
Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You betcha.
Because I'm getting
the sense of,
oh, you know, she should go
back to when she used to dance,
because she was happier
at 19 years of age
when she used to dance.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
really the place.
>>AUDIENCE: I loved dancing.
>>VAN PRAAGH: At 19
especially they give me.
19, dancing, loving, freedom.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Loving it.
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I want
you to do that more.
This man that comes in
who you were married to,
who didn't talk to
you for a while,
too, that her father,
this person, I
feel like I just want to say,
I've forgiven him in some ways.
But there's still
a lot more to do.
Got it?
>>AUDIENCE: I got it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You know what,
we can't be experiencing
demonstrating love
of the highest order
if we still hold
something within us
that we haven't forgiven,
that we don't understand.
And I got to say I have
empathy for this man, your dad.
Why do I have empathy?
Because I don't think
he knew any better.
I don't think he
knew any better.
>>AUDIENCE: I agree.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So what good are
we if we can't show him better?
We're just as good as he was.
We're going down to that level.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: I understand.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So you
need to teach him.
And we teach those on the other
side as well by living here,
and how we deal with
situations, and how
we forgive and move forward.
And I just got to say,
by your letting go
and really releasing
that, that you're still
holding on to
emotional scars here.
That in some way, he
said, he held you back
from being who you are.
Or he held back your
life in some respects.
And he's sorry about that.
You know that.
I don't know if you have two
kids, you have three kids.
I'm not sure.
>>AUDIENCE: Me?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: I have a
daughter that's deceased.
I have Kim.
And I raised my grandson.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
So two to three.
See, isn't that interesting--
>>AUDIENCE: That's two or three.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And can
I just say this to you
and your other daughter,
your sister that passes over,
you're honoring her, too, right?
Do you love her?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, very much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you honor her?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
just want, what I'm
trying to get to you
is that energy of love
that you have for one, the love
that you have for the daughter,
I wish you would give it to
the father, of her father.
Because I know that
maybe-- you just have to.
>>AUDIENCE: I have
to work on that.
I will work on that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know.
I know you do.
I know we all-- listen,
we're all works in progress.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So just realize.
I want to ask you
also, young lady,
would you please forgive him?
>>AUDIENCE: My father?
I have.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
just feel like I'm
not-- I'm not there for you
when you were growing up.
And I wish I was more.
And I'm sorry I
wasn't there, okay?
But I also think that you're
a very independent soul
and that you're OK
with that situation.
You picked that before you
came back on the Earth.
I really do.
There feels as if--
and I know that I'm
getting this from these
different beings here--
I know your sister's a guide.
This sister comes in.
I don't know if she
was a step sister
of yours or a natural sister.
I'm not sure.
>>AUDIENCE: Half.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Half sister.
And I know that looks
after you as well.
And I just want you to be happy.
There are moments of happiness
where you think you're happy.
And then, there's
still this holding
on to something from the past.
So I just got to go here.
I love your mother.
She's really strong.
She's the one holding it
all together, your mom.
And I'm gonna say,
yeah, and I'm going
to say she was a bit of pain
in the ass when she was alive.
Can I just say that--
and lovingly I mean that.
It's the only way
I can describe her.
>>AUDIENCE: Lovingly, OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Loving in a
way that she was aggressive.
She was strong.
She was a strong lady.
And you're a very
sensitive soul.
And you're an empath.
And when you were
a young girl, when
you were a young
girl sensitive, you
didn't understand her energy.
You didn't understand why
she would say certain things
or go about it a certain way.
And she'd be go, go, go, go.
And you're just not that way.
You're a very sensitive person.
So I need to say that.
That's the way I meant it.
That's how I mean it.
I love her.
I think she's great, but the
personality that you would know
of as that woman who was
your mother in that respect.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: It makes sense.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Great.
A question you might have.
>>AUDIENCE: I have this
question of constantly--
>>VAN PRAAGH: I knew
you had a question.
I'm psychic.
I knew this.
>>AUDIENCE: I want to know
why my husband had to die.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Go on.
What?
He's very considerate, you know.
He's a very considerate man.
That's why he let these
people speak first.
That's just the way he is.
He would step in the background.
He'd let others come first,
and then he comes back.
The man with the
uniform is helping him.
This man in the uniform is
helping him to come in here.
So I got to tell you that.
You said your grandfather
or whatever it was.
>>AUDIENCE: My father.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The father, he's
helping him to come through.
I know that you want--
oh, how interesting.
So he's telling me I had
to go in order for you
to be who you are right now.
So in the human condition,
we have to go through pain.
It's a hard thing.
And we can't say why things
happen at that moment
right now, because it's not
necessarily a good answer
to say it happened
because of this reason.
There's a process.
And as you live life,
you will find out
that the reason why
it happened maybe
was to help you to
help somebody else,
to influence someone else,
to meet somebody else.
There's always a reason
behind something.
He said it was his time.
You don't accept that.
>>AUDIENCE: He was so
young, so it was hard.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So let
me explain to you this.
Souls only-- don't know time.
Souls know experiences.
So some souls come
back for two years.
Some come back for 10 years.
Some come for 20 years.
Some leave by being
hit by a train.
Some go by a heart attack.
Some go by disease.
It doesn't matter
how a soul goes.
We're here for
growth of the soul.
In the human
comprehension, we try
to put human concepts
and understandings
on something which is spiritual.
So it's hard for us to have
a complete reasons why.
I just know that
he said that you
have to be who you are
today because of this.
That you wouldn't-- now you
might not understand it,
but later on you'll understand.
How about him wanting to be a
guide of yours in the spirit
world?
How about him being
able to do more for you
over there than over here?
And how about that
was the agreement
before he came back into
the three dimension?
>>AUDIENCE: So did he
fulfill his mission here?
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
think he's trying
to if you'd open up your mind.
You see.
You can help him more by
letting him be there with you,
influence you, helping
you, growing with you,
expanding you.
But instead, you don't give
him some room to do that.
Because I'm still in the grief.
I'm still, why me?
Why would God do that?
How could he do that?
And you see it as a punishment.
It's not a punishment.
It's not a punishment, okay?
Did you crawl into
bed by the way,
when he was on the bed, when
he was sick and you crawled in?
Yes or no?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes,
in the hospital.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
I want to hold on to this hair.
I know that I want
a piece of the hair.
Do you understand
that, Yes or no?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
See, it's always the living
that I have a problem with that.
The dead are fine.
It's the living people.
So I know that you
still hold on to me.
What?
You still hold on to me in
a way that you shouldn't.
Now for me to tell you this,
honey, it's not easy for me,
because I'm a healer.
I know you have my box,
the box there of me.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I don't
know if it's ashes,
but you have them right there.
You understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
you look at them every day.
And I know that you've made
that your mission in life.
And I don't want you
to do that anymore.
Let me be free.
Because if I'm not
free, you're not free.
So he just wants you to be free.
So if you could do that.
It's not easy.
It's a process, but it's
not a punishment, I promise.
So I also want you to ask for
him to come in your dreams
when you're not in control.
Because, you k now,
you're all about control,
boy, control freak.
And sometimes,
maybe that's why he
left, because you can't
control it, right.
So it's a lesson about control.
It's a lesson about surrender.
So some things in our life,
we can't control what happens.
But we certainly can control
how we respond to things.
So, would you know that
you can control how
you respond to things.
You always have his love.
Don't think of him as dead.
He's not.
He died once.
Don't make him die every
day with your thoughts.
I'll leave you with that.
Thank you, ladies.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
very, very true
in that I want you all to know
that Heaven is all around you.
In order for you to get
there-- sometimes when
you go to sleep at
night, we always
go to Heaven and visit it and
go to those different realms
of being.
So at night if you can
go into your dream state,
look around and see where
you are, because you'll
be in Heaven in one
of those levels.
And just have a
journal next to the bed
and maybe write about
it, where you end up.
Thank you everyone very much.
And love and light until
I see you next time.
Thank you very much.